[teleport-update] Agent managed updates documentation (#52024)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/upgrading/agent-managed-updates.mdx

---
title: Teleport Managed Agent Updates (v2)
description: Describes how to set up Teleport Managed Agent Updates v2.
---

<Notice type="warning">
This document describes the Managed Updates v2 updater, which is currently in beta.

For Managed Updates v1 instructions, see
[Managed Updates for Agents (v1)](./agent-managed-updates-v1.mdx).
</Notice>

> Managed updates v2 use a binary called `teleport-update` which is distributed in
> all Teleport packages, alongside Teleport. The updates are configured by the
> `autoupdate_version` and `autoupdate_config` resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Managed Updates v2, a binary called `teleport-update` is distributed in
all Teleport packages, alongside the `teleport` binary. Admins configure updates by managing the
`autoupdate_version` and `autoupdate_config` dynamic resources.
```
- Avoiding the plurality issue
- Removing passive voice

This document covers how to use `teleport-update` and the `autoupdate_*`
resources to manage your agent updates from Teleport.

`teleport-update` supports:

> - Every Teleport edition (Enterprise, Community, OSS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both Teleport Enterprise and Teleport Community Edition
```
To use the current edition naming scheme

> - both cloud and self-hosted Teleport deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Both cloud and self-hosted Teleport Enterprise deployments
```

- Regular and FIPS variants of Teleport
- amd64 and arm64 CPU architectures

> - systemd-based OSes, regardless of the package manager used

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- systemd-based operating systems, regardless of the package manager used
```
To avoid "OSes"

each new Teleport Agent. The updater communicates with the Teleport Proxy Service to
determine when an update is available and if it should perform the update now.

Each agent belongs to an update group. The update schedule specifies when each
group is updated. The schedule is stored in the `autoupdate_config` resource and
can be edited via `tctl`.

For Linux server-based installations, `teleport-update` command configures
Managed Updates locally on the server.

For Kubernetes-based installations, the `teleport-kube-agent` Helm chart
deploys a controller that automatically updates the main Teleport container.

Existing agents must be manually enrolled into Managed Updates.

## Prerequisites

- A Teleport cluster. If you do not have one, [sign
  up](https://goteleport.com/signup) for a free trial or consult the
  [Teleport Installation](../installation.mdx) page.
- Familiarity with the [Upgrading Compatibility Overview](./overview.mdx) guide,
  which describes the sequence in which to upgrade components in your cluster.
- Teleport Agents that are not yet enrolled in Managed Updates.
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl-tsh-prerequisite.mdx!)
- (!docs/pages/includes/tctl.mdx!)

> 

Reviewer: Since the H2 sections for this guide are instructions for different scenarios, rather than a single sequence of high-level steps, I would add some text here linking the reader to the different sections depending on their needs. Otherwise, a user has to work their way through the whole guide in sequence, which doesn't seem like the intention.

## Quick setup for existing connected Linux servers

Users can enable Managed Updates v2 on Linux servers that are already connected
with a single command:

> 

Reviewer: Does the user run this on each server or on their workstation?

```code
$ sudo teleport-update uninstall
```

If Teleport was installed via the apt or yum package,
`teleport-update uninstall` will revert the running version of Teleport back to
the version provided by the package.

## Quick setup for new Linux servers

The [Install Script](../installation.mdx#one-line-installation-script) is the
fastest way to onboard new Linux servers. However, you may also use
`teleport-update` by itself to set up a Teleport Agent manually.

Users can create a new installation of Teleport using any version of the
`teleport-update` binary. First, download copy of the Teleport tarball from
the downloads page. Next, invoke `teleport-update` to install the correct version
for your cluster.

```code
$ tar xf teleport-[version].tgz
$ cd teleport-[version]
$ sudo ./teleport-update enable --proxy example.teleport.sh
```

After Teleport is installed, you can create `/etc/teleport.yaml`, either manually
or using `teleport configure`. After, the Teleport Agent can be enabled and
started via the `systemctl` command:

```code
$ sudo systemctl enable teleport --now
```

## Configuring managed agent updates

Managed agent updates are configured via two Teleport resources:

> - `autoupdate_config` which controls the update schedule
> - `autoupdate_version` which controls the desired version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `autoupdate_config` controls the update schedule
- `autoupdate_version` controls the desired version
```
Grammar suggestion

Self-hosted Teleport users must configure both `autoupdate_config` and
`autoupdate_version`.

> Cloud-hosted Teleport users can configure the `autoupdate_config`, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloud-hosted Teleport Enterprise users can configure the `autoupdate_config`, while the
```
Grammar and edition naming

   <your-agent-release>-updater-d9f97f5dd-v57g9   1/1     Running   0          16m
   ```

1. Check for any deployment issues by checking the updater logs:

   ```code
   $ kubectl -n <Var name="teleport" /> logs deployment/<Var name="teleport-agent" />-updater
   2023-04-28T13:13:30Z	INFO	StatefulSet is already up-to-date, not updating.	{"controller": "statefulset", "controllerGroup": "apps", "controllerKind": "StatefulSet", "StatefulSet": {"name":"my-agent","namespace":"agent"}, "namespace": "agent", "name": "my-agent", "reconcileID": "10419f20-a4c9-45d4-a16f-406866b7fc05", "namespacedname": "agent/my-agent", "kind": "StatefulSet", "err": "no new version (current: \"v12.2.3\", next: \"v12.2.3\")"}
   ```

## Troubleshooting

You can inspect the current agent autoupdate status by running:
```code
$ tctl autoupdate agent status

Agent autoupdate mode: enabled
Rollout creation date: 2025-02-24 16:01:44
Start version: 17.2.0
Target version: 17.2.1
Rollout state: Unstarted
Strategy: time-based

Group Name State     Start Time State Reason
---------- --------- ---------- --------------
default    Unstarted            outside_window
```

> This rollout state is computed by each auth every minute, an `autoupdate_config` or `autoupdate_version`
> change might take up to a minute to be reflected and applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This rollout state is computed by each Auth Service instance every minute. An `autoupdate_config` or `autoupdate_version`
change might take up to a minute to be reflected and applied.
```
